Introduction
1. what is cloud computing ?
ans - cloud computing refers to the practice of using to the practice of using remote servers to store, manage, and process data .
      it allows you to acess ur file & application from anywhere with internet connection .
      its like having a virtual storage space and computing power in the "cloud"
2. Deployment modulein cloud ?
ans - In cloud computing, a deployment module refers to a package or unit of software that is deployed and run on cloud infrastructure.
      It can include applications, services, or components that are designed to work together in the cloud environment.
      It's a way to organize and manage software deployments in the cloud.
3. Service Module In Cloud ?
ans - cloud computing, a service module refers to a component or unit of functionality that is provided as a service in the cloud. 
      It can include services such as storage, computing power, networking, databases, and more. 
      These service modules are designed to be scalable, flexible, and accessible over the internet.
      They allow users to leverage cloud resources without having to manage the underlying infrastructure. 
      It's like having a menu of services that you can choose from in the cloud.
4. Architecture of cloud computing ?
ans - The architecture of cloud computing typically involves a combination of different components.
      At a high level, it includes the following Layer
      1. Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS): This layer provides virtualized computing resources like virtual machines, storage, and networks.
         It gives you the flexibility to manage and control the underlying infrastructure. 
      2. Platform as a Service (PaaS): This layer provides a platform for developing, testing, and deploying applications.
         It includes tools, frameworks, and runtime environments to simplify the application development process. 
      3. Software as a Service (SaaS): This layer offers ready-to-use software applications that are accessible over the internet.
         Examples include email services, customer relationship management (CRM) systems, and collaboration tools.
5. AWS global infrastructure count ?
ans - AWS has a vast global infrastructure with data centers located in various regions around the world. 
      As of my last knowledge update, AWS operates in 25 geographic regions, including Pune, Maharashtra, India. 
      Each region consists of multiple availability zones, which are separate data centers within that region. 
      This extensive infrastructure allows AWS to provide reliable and scalable cloud services to users worldwide.
6. why do we use region ?
ans - We use regions in AWS to ensure high availability, fault tolerance, and low latency for our applications and services. 
      By choosing a specific region, we can deploy our resources closer to our target audience or leverage specific regulatory requirements. 
      It also allows us to replicate data across multiple regions for disaster recovery purposes.
      Regions in AWS act as separate geographic areas with their own data centers, giving us the flexibility to optimize performance and meet our specific business needs.
7. what is service and why we use resources ?
ans - 1. In the context of cloud computing, a service refers to a specific functionality or capability that is provided by a cloud provider, such as AWS. 
      These services can include computing power, storage, networking, databases, machine learning, and more. 
      They are designed to be accessible over the internet and can be used to build, deploy, and manage applications and infrastructure in the cloud.
      2. On the other hand, resources in the context of AWS are the individual components or entities that you create and manage within the AWS environment. 
      These resources can include virtual machines (EC2 instances), storage buckets (S3 buckets), databases (RDS instances), and more.
      Each resource has its own characteristics, configurations, and settings that you can control and manage based on your requirements.
      3.So, in simple terms, services are the functionalities provided by AWS, while resources are the individual components or entities that you create and manage within those services.
      It's like using different tools (services) to create and manage various objects (resources) in the AWS cloud


















AWS Ec2
59.what is ec2 . wht do we use EC2 service in cloud computing?
>>>Amazon EC2 is a web service that provides secure, resizable compute capacity in the cloud. 
It is designed to make web-scale cloud computing easier for developers.

60.Features of Amazon EC2 ?
>>>Amazon EC2 provides the largest and deepest instance choice to match your workload's needs.
       You have complete control of your instances including root access 

61.What is Hypervisor ? and its types ?
>>>A hypervisor is a software that you can use to run multiple virtual machines on a single physical machine
    1.Type 1 hypervisors directly access underlying machine resources
    2.Type 2 hypervisors negotiate resource allocation with the operating system, which makes the process slower and less efficient.

62,Where we use hypervisor
>>>to create and run virtual machines 

63.Steps to create an EC2 instance.
>>>Step 1: Choose a name of your instance. ...
       Step 2: Choose an Amazon Machine Image (AMI) . ..
       Step 3: Choose an Instance Type. ...
       Step 4: Create a key pair. ...
       Step 5: Configure Security Group. ...
       Step 6: Add Storage. ...
       Step 7: Review and Launch.

64.EC2 Instance state ?
>>>a.stop b.start c.reboot d.hybernate e.terminate

65.How many types of EC2 Instance-State codes ?
>>>there are total 8 gamily in EC2 instance and 761+ instance type
      a.General Purpose Instance
      b.M4 instance
      c.M3 instance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
      d.compute optimize instance.                             
      e.GPU instance
      f.Memory Optimized Instances
      g.Storage Optimized Instances: I2 instancesfamily 
                                                             D2 Instance family                                                                                                                                            
 
66.What is the meaning of server hibernating mode ?
>>>when EC2 instance is connected with cloudwatch it will go in hybernating state when the alarm is triggered to maintain CPU usage.

67 . What is KMS ?
>>> it is a manage service which make it easy to create  cryptographic key.
In cryptography, a key is a string of characters used within an encryption algorithm for altering data so that it appears random.

68.AWS Amazon EC2 Instance types ?
>>>General Purpose,Compute Optimized, memory Optimized, Storage Optimized, Accelerated Computing ,etc

69.How many types of status checks happen in aws ?
>>>0/2 hardware , 1/2 software , 2/2 all OK    
                                                                                                                                 
70.When we see the global view option in ec2 service ?
>>>


71.When we logged into the cloud account by default why do we always jump into the north virginia region, why it’s most popular ?
>>>latency, services, availability is high  in this region . it is most popular bcoz it has most no. of AZs.     

72.What are EBS Volumes and its types ?
>>> EBS is elastic block storage , volumes can be attached and detached,
  types a.solid state drive [ssd] b.hard disk drive[hdd] c,previous generation volume                                                                                                                                                          

73.Purpose of Using EBS volumes ?
>>>You can use EBS volumes as primary storage for data that requires frequent updates,
 such as the system drive for an instance or storage for a database application.

74.How many types of purchasing options do we have in aws ec2 ?
>>>on-demand , spot , saving , and reserved instance.

75.Difference between AWS AMI Image & AWS Template ?
>>>       Image                             Template
1)Image is a copy of software       1) Template is copy of hardware
Image of instance                          instance

2)We can share image to             2) We cannot share template
another Aws account                     to another aws account                                                                                          

3) We can copy Image to             3)We cannot copy template to 
another Region in same                another aws account                                                            
account                                                                                                                      

4) While launching an instance      4)While launching an instance
using image we have to                using templute we do not                                                                   
provide all configurations            have to provide all                                                                
                                      configuraton but if we 
                                      want to edit then we can edit                                                                   



















